Acceptance test (#174)
SW709E19/Report: report/ChapterTest/AcceptanceTest.tex

\section{Acceptance Test}
This section describes how acceptance tests were conducted, and the results of the acceptance tests.
The purpose of conducting acceptance tests is to test the system as a whole and not individual parts.
These acceptance tests will work as manual integration tests. 

\subsection{What tests have been conducted}
There have been conducted 3 different tests, they are meant to test different functionality of the system, but not every scenario of every part. The different tests each test something different. The tests cannot tell what part of the system fails, but only that the parts tested works in the tested scenario. 

Test 1 has the task of testing the system in a real-world scenario.
This test includes the gateway, sensor device, dashboard and IoT Core.

> It tests that the sensor device can connect to the raspberry pi and take measurements and send them to the cloud.

Author: Jeg mener at sensor device foretager målinger, kan godt være det skal omformuleres så

> It tests that the sensor device can connect to the raspberry pi and take measurements and send them to the cloud.

Reviewer: Ah okay, jamen så er det nok fint. Jeg tror at det her hjælper på det generelt: (rettelsen til "gateway" er bare fordi det havde jeg gjort i mit push)
```suggestion
It tests that the sensor device can connect to the gateway, take measurements and send them to the cloud.
```

> It tests that the sensor device can connect to the raspberry pi and take measurements and send them to the cloud.

Author: Ja der skal selfølgelig stå gateway

\begin{align}
 Samples = \frac{(1576247706-1576244267)}{10+50}*10*500 = \thicksim286583
\end{align}
The actual amount of samples collected is 234684 giving a difference of 51899 missing samples, meaning 18.1\% error rate.
\begin{align}
 Difference &= 286583-234684 = 51899\\
 Error Percentage &= \frac{286583-234684}{286583} = 18.1 \%
\end{align}
This means that there was collected less samples than calculated. 
This is because the cycle should include some busy time, where connecting to Wi-Fi, and transmitting data is included, to give a more accurate calculation.
During post-collection data analysis, it was discovered that sometimes the sensor devices do not successfully transmit data to the gateway, and the packages were therefore lost. 
This can be seen on \autoref{fig:graph-measurements}
On the graph, is also some big flat spots where no data arrived at the backend for a longer period of time. 
This could be because the sensor devices are limited to a QoS setting 'fire and forget'.
This means the sensor devices will send their data, and not check if it is received. This is a limitation of the MQTT client used on the sensor device. \citep{MQTT-Github}

> 

Reviewer: Kunne vi måske tilføje et paragraf der også beskriver resultaterne for resten af testen og ikke kun antal samples? Enten i starten eller slutningen

Author: Ja det har du ret i, jeg laver lige et udkast til noget der kan tilføjes

Test 3 was conducted, and the results are as follows.
C1 and C2 was noted when conducting the test, and they were the following:
\begin{itemize}
 \item{C1}
 \begin{itemize}
 \item{SAMPLE\_RATE 500}
 \item{SAMPLE\_DURATION 10}
 \item{SLEEP\_DURATION 50}
 \end{itemize}
 \item{C2}
 \begin{itemize}
 \item{SAMPLE\_RATE 100}
 \item{SAMPLE\_DURATION 5}
 \item{SLEEP\_DURATION 10}
 \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

During the test, it was a task to check what the dashboard showed of configurations, these can be seen on \autoref{fig:c1-dashboard} and \autoref{fig:c2-dashboard}.

\begin{figure}[H]
 \centering
 \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth]{ChapterTest/images/c1_dashboard.png}
 \caption{Screenshot of dashboard showing C1 configuration.}
 \label{fig:c1-dashboard}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
 \centering
 \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth]{ChapterTest/images/c2_dashboard.png}
 \caption{Screenshot of dashboard showing C2 configuration.}
 \label{fig:c2-dashboard}
\end{figure}

Since the configuration is shown in the dashboard, and the sensor device reported the configuration in the serial output, this test was successful. 

\subsection{Conclusion of acceptance test}

> The tests were successful, but some information was gained from the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tests were successful and we can conclude that the acceptance criteria for the completed user stories are all met by the system.
In addition to this, some information was gained from the tests.
```

> Sensor devices can lose data in case of Wi-Fi not connecting correctly, or simply because of packet loss. 

Reviewer: Er det sensor devices der mister data?

Author: Ja, hvis den ikke kan få forbindelse til Wi-Fi når den skal sende data afsted, smider den data væk og samler noget nyt

Reviewer: Er det så ikke mere korrekt at sige at systemet mister data? Eller at sensor device smider dataen ud?

Author: Jo det er det nok
```suggestion
The system can lose data in case of Wi-Fi not connecting correctly, or simply because of packet loss. 
```

\textbf{Test 1} was conducted in a real-world scenario, and the vibrations from the washing machine were clearly visible in the dashboard as seen in \autoref{fig:data-screenshot}.

In order to better be able to calculate the expected number of measurements for a given time period, the sensor devices will have to be timed on all tasks, such as connecting to Wi-Fi, waking up, going to sleep and transferring measurements. 
These measurements then need to be included when calculating the cycle length.
This is almost impossible to calculate since the time it takes to transfer the measurements varies depending on how high a sample rate, and sample duration the sensor device is configured to, but also the signal strength between the sensor device and gateway.

> So the total number of samples being lower than calculated is expected.

Reviewer: Dette er lidt en gentagelse fra før og kan nok undlades.

Author: Ja, men så igen, det er jo konklusionen på testene

Reviewer: Hvis det var en sætning der konkluderede på testene som en helhed ville jeg forstå. Men hvis du gerne vil lade sætningen blive, så gør vi det :)

Author: Det vil jeg egentlig gerne :)

> \section{Acceptance Test}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\section{Acceptance Test}\label{sec:AcceptanceTest}
```

\begin{align}
 Samples = \frac{(1576247706-1576244267)}{10+50}*10*500 = \thicksim286583
\end{align}
The actual amount of samples collected is 234684 giving a difference of 51899 missing samples, meaning 18.1\% error rate.
\begin{align}
 Difference &= 286583-234684 = 51899\\
 Error Percentage &= \frac{286583-234684}{286583} = 18.1 \%
\end{align}
This means fewer samples were collected than calculated. 
This is because the cycle should include some busy-time where connecting to Wi-Fi and transmitting data is included to give a more accurate calculation.
During post-collection data analysis it was discovered that sometimes the sensor devices do not successfully transmit data to the gateway and the packages were therefore lost. 
This can be seen in \autoref{fig:graph-measurements}.
There are also large flat spots in the graph where no data arrived at the backend for longer periods of time. 
This could be because the sensor devices are limited to a QoS setting 'fire and forget'.
This means the sensor devices will send their data and not check if it is received.
This is a limitation of the MQTT client used on the sensor device. \citep{MQTT-Github}

> The rest of the test went as expected, the ESP used the correct configuration, and the gateway forwarded any messages it received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rest of the test went as expected: the sensor device used the correct configuration and the gateway forwarded any messages it received.
```

> The ESP was powered by a power bank for the entire duration of the test, but it is unknown how much power it used.

Reviewer: Hvorfor har vi denne sætning med?

Author: Det er i forhold til at der i testen står at den skal have strøm fra en power bank, og et krav er at den skal kunne køre i x antal tid på batteri

> The dashboard worked as intended, and the graph was updated every 5 seconds to show the latest data from Datestore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dashboard worked as intended and the graph was updated every 5 seconds to show the latest data from Datastore.
```

 \item{SLEEP\_DURATION 10}
 \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

During the test it was a task to check what configurations the dashboard displayed.
These can be seen in \autoref{fig:c1-dashboard} and \autoref{fig:c2-dashboard}.

\begin{figure}[H]
 \centering
 \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth]{ChapterTest/images/c1_dashboard.png}
 \caption{Screenshot of dashboard showing configuration C1.}
 \label{fig:c1-dashboard}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
 \centering
 \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth]{ChapterTest/images/c2_dashboard.png}
 \caption{Screenshot of dashboard showing configuration C2.}
 \label{fig:c2-dashboard}
\end{figure}

Since the configuration is shown in the dashboard and the sensor device reported the configuration in the serial output, this test was successful. 

\subsection{Conclusion of acceptance test}
All three tests were successful and some information was gained in the process.
Sensor devices can lose data in case the Wi-Fi does not correctly connect or simply because of packet loss. 
\textbf{Test 1} was conducted in a real-world scenario and the vibrations from the washing machine were clearly visible in the dashboard as seen in \autoref{fig:data-screenshot}.

> To improve the calculation of the expected number of measurements for a given time period the sensor devices will have to be timed on all tasks, such as connecting to Wi-Fi, waking up, going to sleep and transferring measurements. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To improve the calculation of the expected number of measurements for a given period the sensor devices will have to be timed on all tasks, such as connecting to Wi-Fi, waking up, going to sleep and transferring measurements. 
```
